growing up there are some influences
that are forced upon us there's some
influences that may be coming to our
lives accidentally and there are some
that we were seeking out for ourselves
or that we selected for ourselves
I think someone like Tanana Joe she both
represents and actually is someone who
pieced her personality together from
powerful influences that she sought out
and selected on the Internet primarily
here on YouTube and then she went on to
become someone on YouTube who influenced
other young people don't get me wrong I
mean some of the major influences her
life like the rapper a little lane they
existed on the radio but it wasn't
through the medium of radio that little
Wayne's influence became powerful in her
life and then a whole bunch of see list
and d-list celebrities most of whom you
will have never heard of and I never
heard of unless you noticed the big
mentioned tomorrow's videos she you
don't put together a bird's nest she
found those influences and and and put
them together and in so doing with the
passage of time she really became she
poured herself into a mold of her own
creation and we all do that to some
extent if you grew up in a Christian
cult or you were beaten and whipped for
anything you thought or said that was
contrary which is the cult leader kind
of another story
yeah so the some extent to an extent
each of us goes up this way and I think
you know if you're really writing an
autobiography examining your own
childhood and your own development if
you're looking back at those things it's
very difficult to remember accurately in
what cases an influence was forced upon
you perhaps came into your life by
accident or by chance and to what extent
it was something you were seeking out
something you select something that you
made meaningful by your own volition
however imperfect as a young people as
opposed to something that was made
meaningful for you by circumstances or
by an outside Authority for me there's
one I remember really clearly a comment
from the rapper ice-t that was on
Canadian television it was played many
many times a Canadian back in those days
Canadian television was kind of a
smaller place than American television
or European television there was an
interview that ice-t gave
zuly to the new music or one of the
other Canadian programs where he just
stopped and reflected that a lot of the
time young people younger rappers
complained to him that there was some
kind of conspiracy in the industry the
music industry to prevent them from
getting had to prevent them from from
being successful now again my point here
is not that what he says in this topic
is meaningful in some self F in a way
that it's profound in a way that's gonna
reach you right my audience my point is
this was obviously something I was
already wanting to hear I was already
looking for I was already thinking about
and this made a really big impact on me
maybe because it was affirming a lot of
stuff you know I was already animated
about or concerned over that but he went
on to say in this in this interview he
said look I wake up every day and I
talked to people in the industry and all
of them are looking for new recording
artists who can sell more records than I
see who can who can perform for venues
for bigger audiences and tiburtina see
he said so if you're out there and you
can rap you know like ice-t or you can
rap better it's just not true that
there's you know that there's a
conspiracy against you in the industry
on the on the news these words but on
the contrary this whole industry is like
a conspiracy to help you get ahead and
you're just not you know you're not
appreciating that and he said some worse
effect you see I don't even think this
is what I added to it this is my
interpretation this is what I put onto
it what I really got from this was he
was fed up dealing with young people who
were looking for a backdoor into the
recording industry reliever way to trick
their way in a way to use connections
we'd asked him for help you know to get
him set up with a meeting and he was
saying don't use the backdoor use the
front door
like don't try to win through trickery
or connections or favors just be good
enough as a rapper as a musician as a
performer that you can you can you know
you can move the crowd you could
entertain an audience of 3,000 people or
you can sell some records or whatever it
is and then go in the front door stop
hanging around trying to get in the back
door and you know it's funny but this
came up in my life is young person again
and again I remember really
my last year of high school I had a
bunch of conversations along this these
lines but there was a young guy he was
um
his family was was Muslim for my
conversation them I I felt he was an
atheist so he seemed to be X Muslim or
what-have-you and you know what he
really wanted to be I think was a
science fiction writer you know and I
remember him asking me I know I'm you
know why you asked me he asked me and he
he used exactly those words he asked me
about a back door into the publishing
industry no case obviously we were both
young I don't know what age were both in
our last year of high school and I said
to him in effect look you're young
you're at the beginning of your life at
the beginning of your career why now
would you be talking about a backdoor
into the publishing industry why would
you be talking about cheating your way
into publishing a book or a story or
getting ahead in in science fiction you
know look I can understand if you get to
55 years old 65 years old and you've
been writing science fiction for years
and you're really convinced that your
science fiction is good but it's not
reaching an audience then you start
looking for some kind of friends or
connections or conspiracy some kind of
backdoor so you can get that outcome you
can get that access without going in the
front door but now for you whatever age
we were I know 17 or what it was you
know why aren't you looking at you know
building up the craft building up your
portfolio working on your writing doing
the research whatever it is so that you
really are the next Frank Herbert or
george RR martin or whatever it is
whatever is you aspire to be
why aren't you interested in actually
becoming that it actually being that
instead of looking at you know for the
back door instead of looking for a
shortcut instead of looking to use
connections so that you can in effect
and what this is really about so why are
you looking to get the trappings of
success why are you looking to get the
the trappings of Fame instead of
actually earning what it is that's made
these other people famous okay now guys
some people are watching this video is
the first video they've ever seen on my
channel
some people you know you've been
watching my videos for years and you
already know what I'm about um you know
this this trope this thing with you know
it came out of a momentary interview
with a rapper my life has had nothing to
do with rap music a minute it's not my
field I'm not a recording artist and not
someone involved in that world not
involved in the performing arts you know
you might think this is just you know a
childhood memory but it's something that
came up again and again and again even
in academia even like in the formal
context of my meeting with a professor
who's offering to get me an MA in
linguistics I would sing in my terms
through a back door saying hey look we
can set you up so you get this master's
degree in linguistics and that's going
to help you go ahead and do what you
want to do and what I'm asking back yeah
you can get me a master's degree but how
am I actually going to learn this
language like how am I going to do the
work that the MA is supposed to
represent how am I going to do the real
thing
hey I'm not interested in having the
degree as it is creeping Hollow being
just the trappings of learning I'm
interested in the actual learning
hundreds over the actual learning
process and you know in that particular
case there was no good answer for him
for that know what they were really
talking about was going through the
motions of getting me an MA in
linguistics but giving me absolutely
zero language education and not even be
able to supervise that or what-have-you
and this is not the only example of its
kind in several other disciplines where
segregating an MA or first getting an MA
and then getting a PhD there's a lot of
talk about frankly this kind of
conspiracy to give you the credentials
of learning without you actually doing
learning um anyway when I look at Tana
mojo today this is 2018 what I see is
obviously pretty sad Tana mojo presented
to all of us an example of someone who
was as she says again and again born
dirt poor terrible education dropped out
of school learned everything she knows
by watching garbage on YouTube again
these kind of self selected self
reinforced
you know sources of cultural and
philosophical influence put together her
identity from these from these bits and
pieces and then she had this opportunity
to be more to be something better you
know morally and ethically and you know
her flirtation with veganism was all
obviously a part of that and in terms of
her career or in her financial situation
and everything else she had this
opportunity handed to her which is
really much more rare than one in a
million
she had the the potential to symbolize
something much more positive for
audience and to actually be something
much more positive for herself for
audience for anyone else who who cares
and instead exactly what she got caught
up in was having a crowd of people
standing in the Sun screaming to get in
you know was the crowd outside the
barrier it was you know vanity of
vanities it wasn't even the thing it was
um anyway the worst most
counterproductive elements of having
people thronging you know to see you to
hear your voice and at the same time
these recent events jobs but absolutely
no thought and absolutely no effort into
what is it these people are gonna hear
when they get in the door what is the
show you're putting on what's the food
and drink you're offering I mean
ultimately she's offering like a concert
with no music at this point you know
what this what is the product supposed
to be here what is the performance and
so on those things were going
unthought-of and she was utterly caught
up in the the trappings of Fame
so look guys Tana mojo she really is
part of my personal experience here on
on YouTube in a really weird and dynamic
way I have within the last year watched
a bunch of Tana Maggio videos you know
with my girlfriend and and several years
ago one of the first videos that really
got my name out there within the the
vegan demi-monde now got over I think
14,000 15,000 views was a video directly
answering and talking to Tana mojo
and you know all of us on YouTube or
within six degrees of separation or each
other I remember once she did a she did
a video event with Charles Marlow
Foreman wants to fee Conchita and this
stuff you know that's back when she was
vegan herself and there was some you
know um she was part of the she was part
of the demi-monde the same day we Mont I
was in and so on and I say all the time
in discussions of ethics on this channel
that ultimately you know you have to ask
yourself who do I want to be what kind
of person do I want to become and it's a
subtle distinction but you know the
answer famous famous is not an answer to
that question famous isn't who you want
to be and may seem like a small step but
what do you want to be famous for what
you want to be appreciated for you know
obviously tanomo joe was was just too
stupid to realize the opportunities you
had and she's instead just become
another example of someone presented
with an extraordinary opportunity who
squandered it